---
title: Testing
---

Purpose of my last employment was to shade the light on the zone that remained dark for me in the process of contemporary software development, but first, as I like it, history lesson, which helps to understand the roots of such activity.

Long story short: it's needed for the long term evolving projects to be assure new functions works properly and existing functions didn't break for existing clients during product lifecycle.

Now comprehensive version.

Long long ago, programs were created by theiself. Made, run, done. Level of complexity wasn't that high and science of software development process didn't go that far. People were buying commercial products once and were living with it and with promise of support of fixing bugs in best case. That was mostly popular with Windows -- one of the few long term projects those days and those bug fixes, were called service packs.

Fast forward to nowadays, in contemporary world it turned out economy of the company is easier to plan if customers pay you all the time. It's quite the trend of the world, you do crappy stuff earlier, it breaks, people buys new.

So be able to sell product to the customers all the time. Ok let's get optimistic, it's actually makes the things rolling. So to be able evolve the product and pay to the once who work on it you have to get money from the customers on the constant basis. For that you have to provide new features and not to break functionality of existing ones. And that should be done constantly. Developers do, testers test.

With not long running projects without subscription model, you still have to test, because complexity of the current products usually that hight that you can't just rely on the fact that everything went fine and nobody of your many developers didn't make a mistake. But for small products tests are done just ones before the release and shipment to the customer.
Since it's just done once it becomes useless to put an effort to create some automated tests for small project. So in the small teams testing done manually by people -- point here, click here.

For the long running projects product stays the same, so it make sense to automate repetition steps, so testing department ideally grows to the number of people who is responsible for creating automated testing programs and assure product works. This assurance done by QE signoff of the product after the release.

So basically automated testing department should grow automated testing programs codebase to cover newly created features and run already existing codebase to make sure what has been working before the release still works.

To make all the things running together Continues Integration goes on stage to run steps required for release, including testing sequentially.

All the use of it could be found in one [video by Apple developers on WWDC 2015](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2015-410/)
