---
title: IT City
tags: ["Industry", "Future of the industry"]
---

Guys from the [Y Combinator went for ambitious idea: to create artificial cities](http://blog.ycombinator.com/new-cities). That project aimed to create productive environment. Arguments are that, in past cities had to be along the transportation paths: rivers, roads to be effective, but as stated nowadays preferences changed.
They want to create proper atmosphere and microstructure for the cities.

It is as said quite ambitious goal and I believe it could work in a very, vary long term.

As for personal experience I could say, that city caries energy, that comes from the history of the city and a pace it lives in. It consists of the billion small things as a nature landscape, views and so on.

Some period of my life I’ve been traveling many times between two cities in Russia and was entertaining myself guessing what city my next seat train travelers are from. And 9 out of 10 I was right.

Explanation is simple if in one city, let’s say fountains are on the every corner and in another they are not, you would be able to spot the difference between those two persons from the different cities even though you don’t know the exact reason(fountains, rocks, rivers, etc.). So every city does have an energy.

Another thing about the nature is a rivers. Water passing through has a huge impact on the people living nearby. Water takes and refreshes the energy. I’ve been living for some time in the city with two small rivers and could spot the difference compared to the city with the wider river. Water refreshes the people taking the entry and in ‘small rivers’ city people were more mean keeping negatives for longer.

Recently I had a conversation with one girl working in the european conferences organization company and she named several cities where events are more common. The reason for that was transportation hub, including air transport connection mostly and roads as well. 

So contemporary cities even though they are not tied to goods transportation along the river are connected to the air lines hubs a lot.

So I would state 3 things: nature, transport, history. 

There is one good example of the city made by the power of will of one man, city is St. Petersburg, it is a really good example for research. Such thing as a soil was imported to make it possible.

I’m not saying it’s not possible, but saying you should mind milling of things and the only possible way to have it is to have perfect internal sense. 
